[23.1] 23.1 Release Notes (#16329)
galaxyproject/galaxy: doc/source/releases/23.1_announce_user.rst

* Add hdf4 datatype
  (thanks to `@TheoMathurin <https://github.com/TheoMathurin>`__).
  `Pull Request 16105`_
* Fix linting of FITS datatype code
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 16169`_
* Add zipped mongodb and genenotebook datatypes
  (thanks to `@abretaud <https://github.com/abretaud>`__).
  `Pull Request 16173`_
* Add Visium datatype for squidpy and spatialomics tools
  (thanks to `@astrovsky01 <https://github.com/astrovsky01>`__).
  `Pull Request 16255`_

Builtin Tool Updates
===========================================================

.. tools
* Deprecate tools/evolution
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 15656`_
* Allow pending inputs in some collection operation tools
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 15892`_
* Updates MGnify interactive tool to v1.1.0
  (thanks to `@SandyRogers <https://github.com/SandyRogers>`__).
  `Pull Request 16179`_
* Remove various fallback behaviors
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 16199`_

Release Testing Team
===========================================================

> A special thanks to the release testing team for testing many of the new features and reporting many bugs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A special thanks to the release testing team for testing many of the new features:
```
Sometimes there may be not too many bugs, and even if there are many, reporting them is only part of what the team does. So maybe just limit it to thanks for testing new features?

> <team members go here>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Jennifer Hillman-Jackson <https://github.com/jennaj>`__
* `John Davis <https://github.com/jdavcs>`__
* `Luke Sargent <https://github.com/luke-c-sargent>`__
* `Martin Cech <https://github.com/martenson>`__
* `Michelle Savage <https://github.com/hujambo-dunia>`__
* `Stephen Mosher <https://github.com/slmosher>`__
```

===========================================================
June 2023 Galaxy Release (v 23.1)
===========================================================

.. include:: _header.rst

Highlights
===========================================================

Carbon Emissions Reporting!
---------------------------

Stay on top of your carbon emissions contributions by enabling our new reporting
feature! Initial implementation of carbon emissions reporting has now been added
to the job information page. Monitor your carbon footprint in real-time and
become inspired to better your relationship with the environment! Currently,
this feature assumes global average values for carbon intensity and power usage
effectiveness.

History Archival Feature!
-------------------------

> Your history menu now has a new option move a history out of your active history

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your history menu now has a new option to move a history out of your active histories
```

and into an archive! When archiving a history, you will be presented with two

> options: one to “Keep the Storage Space” and one to “Free the Storage Space”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
options: either to “Keep the Storage Space” or to “Free the Storage Space”
```

taken up by the history. Keeping the storage space will keep the contents of the
history where they are, allowing them to be restored at any moment, but will
prevent the UI from allowing certain operations on the history. Freeing the
storage space will prompt you to package and export the history to a permanent
remote source as a backup snapshot, and then purge the history and its contents

> to free up storage space. There will be a simple list, titles Archived

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to free up storage space. There will be a simple list, titled Archived
```

Histories, for you to explore your archived histories and restore and reimport
them, as needed!

Galaxy Notification System!
---------------------------
The previous Galaxy notification system has been overhauled to support more
complex scenarios and features! As users, you will now have more control of your

> notifications, including the option to subscribe/unsubscribe from certain times

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
notifications, including the option to subscribe/unsubscribe from certain types
```

I guess?

  `Pull Request 16179`_
* Remove various fallback behaviors
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 16199`_
* Deprecate tools/evolution
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 15656`_
* Allow pending inputs in some collection operation tools
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 15892`_
* Updates MGnify interactive tool to v1.1.0
  (thanks to `@SandyRogers <https://github.com/SandyRogers>`__).
  `Pull Request 16179`_
* Remove various fallback behaviors
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 16199`_
* Deprecate tools/evolution
  (thanks to `@bernt-matthias <https://github.com/bernt-matthias>`__).
  `Pull Request 15656`_
* Allow pending inputs in some collection operation tools
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).
  `Pull Request 15892`_
* Updates MGnify interactive tool to v1.1.0
  (thanks to `@SandyRogers <https://github.com/SandyRogers>`__).
  `Pull Request 16179`_
* Remove various fallback behaviors
  (thanks to `@mvdbeek <https://github.com/mvdbeek>`__).

>   `Pull Request 16199`_

Reviewer 2: These are duplicated twice for some reason.

```suggestion
```
